Add the Compass tutorial (#6285)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/compass/08-01-tutorial.md

---
title: Manage your Applications using Kyma and Compass Console UI
type: Tutorial
---

> This tutorial presents the basic flow in which you manually register an external Application's API into Compass and expose it into the Kyma Runtime. In the Kyma Runtime, you then create a lambda that calls the `order-service` API. While going through this tutorial, you will navigate between two UI views:

Reviewer: application's API?

- Compass UI, where you create connections between Applications, Runtimes, and Scenarios
- Kyma Console UI, where you manage resources used in your Application, such as services, lambdas, and bindings

## Prerequisites

> For simplicity reason, use the available Order Service as the sample external Application for this tutorial. Prepare the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For simplicity reasons, use the available Order Service as the sample external Application for this tutorial. Prepare the following:
```

- [`order-service`](./assets/order-service.yaml) file that contains the service definition, deployment, and its API
- [API specification](./assets/order-service-api-spec.yaml) of the `order-service`

> - [Lambda function](./assets/lambda.yaml) that calls `order-service` for orders

Reviewer: and not : the `order-service` as in the above point? whether with not or without it, let's make it consistent throughout the doc

Author: I'll skip "the"

- Kyma cluster with the Compass module enabled

>**NOTE:** Read [this](#installation-enable-compass-in-kyma-default-kyma-installation) document to learn how to install Kyma with the Compass module.

## Steps

### Deploy the external Application

1. Log in to the Kyma Console and create a new Namespace by selecting the **Add new namespace** button.

> 2. In the **Overview** tab in your Namespace, select the **Deploy new resource** button and use the [`order-service`](./assets/order-service.yaml) file to connect the Application.

Reviewer: you have `select the xxx button` here but `click the xxx button` in the below steps - could you unify it throughout the doc?

3. In the **APIs** tab, copy the URL to your Application. You will use it in the Compass UI in the next steps.

### Register your Application in the Compass UI

> 1. Select **Back to Namespaces** in the top-left corner of the page and go to the **Compass** tab in the left navigation panel. It will navigate you to the Compass UI. Select a tenant you want to work on from the drop-down list on the top navigation panel. For the purpose of this tutorial, select the `default` tenant. In the **Runtimes** tab, there is already the default `kymaruntime` that you can work on to complete this tutorial.

Reviewer: you have `in the left navigation panel` and `on the top navigation panel` - I would go for either on or in (preferably ;) ) throughout the dpc

> 1. Select **Back to Namespaces** in the top-left corner of the page and go to the **Compass** tab in the left navigation panel. It will navigate you to the Compass UI. Select a tenant you want to work on from the drop-down list on the top navigation panel. For the purpose of this tutorial, select the `default` tenant. In the **Runtimes** tab, there is already the default `kymaruntime` that you can work on to complete this tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select **Back to Namespaces** in the top-left corner of the page, and go to the **Compass** tab in the left navigation panel. It will navigate you to the Compass UI. Select a tenant you want to work on from the drop-down list on the top navigation panel. For the purpose of this tutorial, select the `default` tenant. In the **Runtimes** tab, there is already the default `kymaruntime` that you can work on to complete this tutorial.
```

> 2. Navigate to the **Application** tab in the main Console view and click **Create Application** to register your Application in Compass. For the purpose of this tutorial, name your Application `test-app`. By default, your Application and Runtime are assigned to the `DEFAULT` scenario.

Reviewer: scenario or Scenario? - in prerequisites it was capitalized

Author: I'll make it lowercase

3. Select `test-app` in the **Applications** view and add the API spec of the Order Service:

>     a. Click the **+** button in **API Definitions** section and fill in all the required fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    a. Click the **+** button in the **API Definitions** section and fill in all the required fields.
```

    b. Paste the URL to your Application in the **Target URL** field.

    c. Click the **Add specification** button and upload the `order-service` [API spec file](./assets/order-service-api-spec.yaml).

    d. In the **Credentials** tab, choose `None` from the drop-down list to select the credentials type. For the purpose of this tutorial, there is no need to secure the connection. Click **Create**.

### Use your Application in the Kyma Console UI

> 1. Go back to the Kyma Console UI. You can see that the `test-app` Application is registered in the **Applications** view. Select `test-app` and bind it to your Namespace by selecting the  **Create Binding** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go back to the Kyma Console UI. You can see that the `test-app` Application is registered in the **Applications** view. Select `test-app` and bind it to your Namespace by selecting the **Create Binding** button.
```

> 2. Select your Namespace from the drop-down list and go to the **Catalog** view. See that your services are now available under the **Services** tab. Provision the service instance by choosing your service and clicking the **Add once** button in the top-right corner of the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select your Namespace from the drop-down list and go to the **Catalog** view. You will see your services available under the **Services** tab. Provision the service instance by choosing your service and clicking the **Add once** button in the top-right corner of the page.
```

3. Create a lambda function. In the **Overview** tab, click the **Deploy new resource** button and upload the `lambda.yaml` file.

4. Expose your lambda:

    a. Go to the **Lambdas** tab in the left navigation panel and choose the `call-order-service` lambda.

    b. In the **Settings & Code** section, click the **Select Function Trigger** button and expose your lambda via HTTPS.

>     c. Untick the **Enable authentication** field as  there is no need to secure the connection for the purpose of this tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    c. Untick the **Enable authentication** field as there is no need to secure the connection for the purpose of this tutorial.
```

    d. Click **Add**.

>     e. Scroll down to the end of your lambda view and bind your lambda to your instance by clicking the **Create Service Binding** button in the **Service Binding** section. Choose the ServiceInstance you want to bind your lambda to and click **Create Service Binding**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    e. Scroll down to the end of your lambda view and bind your lambda to your instance by clicking the **Create Service Binding** button in the **Service Binding** section. Choose the ServiceInstance you want to bind your lambda to, and click **Create Service Binding**.
```

>     f. Save the settings in the right top right corner of the page.

Reviewer: `top-right` as above?

    g. Click the **Lambdas** tab and wait until the lambda status is completed and marked as `1/1`.

> 5. Test your lambda. Navigate to your lambda and go to the **Testing** tab. After you click the **Send** button, you can see the following output in the **Response** field:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Test your lambda. Navigate to your lambda, and go to the **Testing** tab. After you click the **Send** button, you can see the following output in the **Response** field:
```

    ```
    {
      "status": 200,
      "data": []
    }
    ```

    You can test your lambda by performing the following actions in the **Payload** field:

    - `{"action":"add"}` - adds the new order

>     - `{"action":"list"}` - lists all orders; this is the default command executed after you click the **Send** button

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `{"action":"list"}` - lists all orders. This is the default command executed after you click the **Send** button.
```

Reviewer: or brackets? 🤔

    - `{"action":"delete"}` - deletes all the orders

### Cleanup

Clean up your cluster after going through this tutorial. To do so, delete your resources in the following order:

1. Go to the **Lambdas** tab, unfold the vertical option menu and delete your lambda.

> 2. Go to the **Services** tab and delete `order-service`.

Reviewer: `order-service` or the `order-service`?

Author: I'll skip "the"

3. Go to the **Deployments** tab and delete the `order-service` deployment.

4. Go to the **APIs** tab and delete the `order-service` API.

5. Go to the **Instances** tab, navigate to **Services**, and deprovision your instance by selecting the trash bin icon.

6. Go to the **Overview** section and unbind `test-app` from your Namespace.

7. Go back to the Namespaces view and delete your Namespace.

> 8. In the Compass UI, remove `test-app` from the **Applications** view. If you go back to the **Applications** view in the Kyma Console UI, you can see that the `test-app` Application is removed. It can take a moment, refresh if the Application is still there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. In the Compass UI, remove `test-app` from the **Applications** view. If you go back to the **Applications** view in the Kyma Console UI, you can see that the `test-app` Application is removed. It can take a moment, so refresh the Console UI if the Application is still there.
```

---
title: Manage your Applications using Kyma and Compass Console UI
type: Tutorial
---

> This tutorial present end-to-end use case scenario that shows how to connect an external Application to Compass so that its lambda calls and gets the order services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial presents an end-to-end use case scenario that shows how to connect an external Application to Compass so that its lambda calls and gets the order services. When going through the steps, will switch between two UIs:
- Compass UI where you create a matching between an application, runtime, and scenario
- Console UI where you manage resources used in your application, such as Services, Events, Lambdas, and RoleBindings

```

## Prerequisites

Use the [HTTP DB Service](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/master/http-db-service) application to go through this tutorial. Download the following:

> - HTTP DB Service [API definition](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/blob/master/http-db-service/docs/api/api.yaml)

Reviewer: I think it is rather more common and straightforward to give the "raw" links where the content can be easily copied -> `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kyma-project/examples/master/http-db-service/docs/api/api.yaml`. I guess I would also not use the phrase "download" as you actually do not have this option in GitHub.

- HTTP DB Service [deployment file](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/blob/master/http-db-service/deployment/deployment.yaml)
- [`call-order-service`](./assets/lambda.yaml) lambda function
- Kyma cluster with the Compass module enabled

>**NOTE:** Read [this](#installation-enable-compass-in-kyma-compass-as-a-central-management-plane) document to learn how to install Kyma with the Compass module enabled.

## Steps

### Compass UI view

1. Log in to the Kyma Console and navigate to the **Compass** UI which opens a new tab with the Compass UI Console view. Select a tenant you want to work on.
2. In the **Runtime** tab, click on the Runtime you want to work on and assign it to the `DEFAULT` scenario.
3. Navigate to the **Application** view and click **Create Application**. Assign your application to the `DEFAULT` scenario.

> 4. Click on your Application name and **Add API** of the HTTP DB Service. Choose `None` as credential type. The **Target URL** is the URL to your Application. In case of HTTP DB Service, proceed with the next steps before completing this field.

Reviewer: ```Choose `None` as credential type.``` - why?

### Kyma Console view

Go back to the Kyma Console UI. You can see that your Application is registered in the **Applications** view.
1. Click on your Application name and **Create Binding** to a given Namespace.
2. In the **Overview** tab of your Namespace, click the **Deploy new resource** button. Add the deployment and lambda files.
3. Go to the **Services** tab, click on the `http-db-service` Application and expose its API. You'll get the Target URL that you need in the Compass Console UI.
4. Go to the **Catalog** view. Your services are now available.
5. Choose your service and create a ServiceInstance by clicking the **Add once** button.
6. Go to the **Lambdas** tab and choose the `call-order-service` lambda. Click the **Select Function Trigger** button and expose your lambda via HTTPS. Untick the **Enable authentication** field.
7. Create a new Service Binding and bind your lambda to your instance. Remember to save the settings in your lambda view.

> 8. Go to the **Testing** tab in your lambda view. Click the **Send** button. You can see a new order in the **Response** field.

Reviewer: I don't see any response in the **Response** window after clicking **Send**.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/40655785/71617732-b0e70e80-2bbc-11ea-9b9c-7022ea2c12fa.png)

### Cleanup

1. Go to the **Applications** section in the Kyma Console UI and navigate to your Application. Unbind the Application from your Namespace.

> 2. In the Compass UI, remove the `DEFAULT` scenario from your Runtime.

Reviewer: Where should I do it, here?
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/40655785/71617810-0d4a2e00-2bbd-11ea-833a-e8f7d1cc4ae7.png)

---
title: Manage your Applications using Kyma and Compass Console UI
type: Tutorial
---

> This tutorial presents an end-to-end use case scenario that shows how to connect an external Application to Compass so that its lambda calls and gets the order services. While going through this tutorial, you will navigate between two UI views:

Reviewer 2: This tutorial presents basic flow where user registers manually external Application APIs into Compass and then expose them into Kyma Runtime. Next, in the Kyma Runtime users creates lambda which calls order service API. While going through this tutorial, you will navigate between two UI views: ...

Comment: Next tutorials will show automatic connection between external Application and Compass. That's a reason I've changed your tutorial description.

- Compass UI, where you create connections between Applications, Runtimes, and Scenarios
- Kyma Console UI, where you manage resources used in your Application, such as services, lambdas, and bindings

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer 2: Mention here, that for simplicity we use below service as an example, that will act as the external Application.

> For simplicity reason, use [this](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/master/http-db-service) service as the example external Application to go through this tutorial. Prepare the following:

Author: Changed "this" to "Order Service"

> For simplicity reason, use [this](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/master/http-db-service) service as the example external Application to go through this tutorial. Prepare the following:

Author: Applied but changed HTTP DB Service into Order Service, as suggested by PK.

- [File](./assets/http-db-service-deployment.yaml) that contains the HTTP DB Service definition and deployment
- HTTP DB Service [API spec](./assets/http-db-api-spec.yaml)

> - [`call-order-service`](./assets/lambda.yaml) lambda function

Reviewer 2: lambda function that calls http-db-api service for orders. BTW maye we should name a file as a order-service, cause http-db name has nothing to that tutorial.

- Kyma cluster with the Compass module enabled

> >**NOTE:** Read [this](#installation-enable-compass-in-kyma-compass-as-a-central-management-plane) document to learn how to install Kyma with the Compass module enabled.

Reviewer 2: You should point to documenttaion where user install kyma runtime with compass, and not a central one. Singke cluster mode.

## Steps

> ### Connect the external Application

Reviewer 2: Connect -> Deploy

> 1. Log in to the Kyma Console and create the `test` Namespace by clicking the **Add new namespace** button.

Reviewer 2: and create the `test` Namespace -> and create new Namespace

> 2. In the **Overview** tab in your Namespace, click the **Deploy new resource** button and select the file with HTTP DB Service and deployment to connect the Application.

Reviewer 2: and select the file with HTTP DB Service and deployment to connect the Application. -> and use the file with HTTP DB Service. (maybe add link again to file)

> 

Reviewer 2: Add point 3, to copy Application URL that will be used in Compass UI then

### Register your Application in the Compass UI

1. Go **Back to Namespaces** at the left top of the page and select the **Compass** tab in the left navigation panel, which navigates you to the Compass UI. Select a tenant you want to work on from the drop-down list on the top navigation panel. For the purpose of this tutorial, select the `default` tenant.

> 2. In the **Runtimes** tab, there is already the default `kymaruntime` that you can work on to complete this tutorial.

Author: I would rather merge step 1 and 2 into one.

> 2. In the **Runtimes** tab, there is already the default `kymaruntime` that you can work on to complete this tutorial.

Author: I've merged step 1 and 2.

> 2. In the **Runtimes** tab, there is already `kymaruntime` that you can work on to complete this tutorial. This is the default Runtime that is already assigned to the `DEFAULT` scenario. You can also create a new Runtime by clicking the **Create runtime** button. After creating the Runtime, navigate to it, click **Edit**, and assign it to the scenario you want to work on. To create scenarios, go to the **Scenarios** tab and click the **Create Scenario** button. While creating a new scenario, you can assign Runtimes and Applications to it from the drop-down lists.

Reviewer 2: This point has only first sentence which is meaningful for this tutorial, rest is out of tutorial need.

> 3. Navigate to the **Application** view and click **Create Application** to register your Application in Compass. For the purpose of this tutorial, name your Application `test-app`. By default, your Application is assigned to the `DEFAULT` scenario.

Reviewer 2: Maybe... "By default, your Application and Runtime is assigned to the `DEFAULT` scenario."

3. Navigate to the **Application** view and click **Create Application** to register your Application in Compass. For the purpose of this tutorial, name your Application `test-app`. By default, your Application and Runtime are assigned to the `DEFAULT` scenario.

> 4. Click on `test-app` in the **Applications** view and add the API spec of the Order Service. To do so, click the **+** button in **API Definitions** section and fill in all the required fields. Paste the URL to your Application in the **Target URL** field. Click the **Add specification** button below and upload the `order-service` [API spec file](./assets/order-service-api-spec.yaml). In the **Credentials** tab, choose `None` as credential type from the drop-down list since, for the purpose of this tutorial, there is no need to secure the connection. Click **Create**.

Reviewer: It looks like substeps -a) b) c) ?

> 4. Click on `test-app` in the **Applications** view and add the API spec of the HTTP DB Service. To do so, click the **+** button in **API Definitions** section. Fill in all the required fields,  click the **Add specification** button below and upload the HTTP DB Service API spec file. Paste the URL to your Application in the **Target URL** field. In case of HTTP DB Service, proceed with the next steps before filling this field. In the **Credentials** tab, choose `None` as credential type from the drop-down list since, for the purpose of this tutorial, there is no need to secure the connection.

Reviewer 3: I'm a bit confused in this step. First, it says that I need to add specification and further I cannot finalize this step as I do not have the **Target URL** which is a mandatory field. I'm missing some description how I should proceed.

> 4. Click on `test-app` in the **Applications** view and add the API spec of the HTTP DB Service. To do so, click the **+** button in **API Definitions** section. Fill in all the required fields,  click the **Add specification** button below and upload the HTTP DB Service API spec file. Paste the URL to your Application in the **Target URL** field. In case of HTTP DB Service, proceed with the next steps before filling this field. In the **Credentials** tab, choose `None` as credential type from the drop-down list since, for the purpose of this tutorial, there is no need to secure the connection.

Reviewer 2: how I can do that: Paste the URL to your Application in the **Target URL** field. ?

### Use your Application in the Kyma Console UI

> 1. Go back to the Kyma Console UI. You can see that the `test-app` Application is registered in the **Applications** view. Click on `test-app` and bind it to your Namespace by clicking the  **Create Binding** button. Select the previously created Namespace from the drop-down list.

Reviewer: `click sth` (not "on sth") or `select sth`... whichever you choose - let's make it consistent in the who doc

> 2. Go to the **Catalog** view. See that your services are now available under the **Services** tab. Provision your instance by choosing your service and clicking the **Add once** button at the right top corner of the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Go to the **Catalog** view. See that your services are now available under the **Services** tab. Provision the service instance by choosing your service and clicking the **Add once** button in the top-right corner of the page.
```

Reviewer: I am not sure whether to use `on` or `in` here - I guess all are possible, let's just make it consistent in the doc whichever you choose

> 2. Go to the **Catalog** view. See that your services are now available under the **Services** tab. Provision your instance by choosing your service and clicking the **Add once** button at the right top corner of the page.

Author: Sounds good, thanks!

> 3. Create a lambda function. To do so, go **Back to Namespaces** at the left top of the page and select your Namespace. In the **Overview** tab, click the **Deploy new resource** button and upload the `lambda.yaml` file.

Reviewer 3: Can you link to the `lambda.yaml` file

```suggestion
3. Create a lambda function. To do so, go **Back to Namespaces** at the left top of the page and select your Namespace. In the **Overview** tab, click the **Deploy new resource** button and upload the [`lambda.yaml`](./assets/lambda.yaml) file.
```

> 3. Create a lambda function. To do so, go **Back to Namespaces** at the left top of the page and select your Namespace. In the **Overview** tab, click the **Deploy new resource** button and upload the [`lambda.yaml`](./assets/lambda.yaml) file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Create a lambda function. In the **Overview** tab, click the **Deploy new resource** button and upload the [`lambda.yaml`](./assets/lambda.yaml) file.
```

> 2. Expose your Application. To do so, go back to the **Namespaces** tab and select the `test` Namespace. Select the **Services** tab at the left low navigation panel and click on the `http-db-service` Application. In the **Exposed APIs** section, click the **Expose API** button. In the required **Host** field, type `test` as a hostname. Do not secure your API since, for the purpose of this tutorial, there is no need to secure the connection. Click **Save**. In the **Exposed APIs** section below, you'll get the URL that you need in the **Target URL** field in the Compass UI view. Copy the link and navigate to the Compass UI to finish the step of adding API spec to your Application.

Reviewer 2: move that whole point to http db file. I mean API CR yaml to http db file.

> 4. Expose your lambda. Go to the **Lambdas** tab at the left navigation panel and choose the `call-order-service` lambda. In the **Settings & Code** section, click the **Select Function Trigger** button and expose your lambda via HTTPS. Untick the **Enable authentication** field since, for the purpose of this tutorial, there is no need to secure the connection. Click **Add**. Scroll down to the end of your lambda view and bind your lambda to your instance by clicking the **Create Service Binding** button in the **Service Binding** section. Choose the ServiceInstance you want to bind your lambda to and click **Create Service Binding**. Remember to save the settings at the right top of the page. Click on the **Lambdas** tab and wait until the lambda status is completed and marked as `1/1`.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Expose your lambda. Go to the **Lambdas** tab in the left navigation panel and choose the `call-order-service` lambda. In the **Settings & Code** section, click the **Select Function Trigger** button and expose your lambda via HTTPS. Untick the **Enable authentication** field as there is no need to secure the connection for the purpose of this tutorial. Click **Add**. Scroll down to the end of your lambda view and bind your lambda to your instance by clicking the **Create Service Binding** button in the **Service Binding** section. Choose the ServiceInstance you want to bind your lambda to and click **Create Service Binding**. Remember to save the settings in the top right corner of the page. Click the **Lambdas** tab and wait until the lambda status is completed and marked as `1/1`.  
```

Reviewer: `bind your lambda to`  -> or `bind your lambda with`?

5. Test your lambda. Navigate to your lambda and go to the **Testing** tab. After you click the **Send** button, you can see the following output in the **Response** field:

> ```

Reviewer: add an indent so that it shows as part of step 5 on the website

{
  "status": 200,
  "data": []
}
```
You can test your lambda by performing the following actions in the **Payload** section:
  - `{"action":"add"}` - adds the new order
  - `{"action":"list}"` - lists all orders; this is the default command executed after you click the **Send** button
  - `{"action":"delete"}` - deletes all the orders

### Cleanup

Clean up your cluster after going through this tutorial. To do so, delete your resources in the following order:
1. Go to the **Lambdas** tab, unfold the vertical option menu and delete your lambda.
2. Go to the **Services** tab and delete `order-service `.
3. Go to the **Deployments** tab and delete the `order-service ` deployment.
4. Go to the **APIs** tab and delete the `order-service ` API.

> 5. Go to the **Instances** tab, navigate to **Services**, and deprovision your instance by clicking on the thrash bin icon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Go to the **Instances** tab, navigate to **Services**, and deprovision your instance by selecting the trash bin icon.
```

> 6. Go to the **Overview** section and unbind the `test-app` from your Namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Go to the **Overview** section and unbind `test-app` from your Namespace.
```

>   - `"action":"add"` - adds the new order

Reviewer 2: put whole payload, that user can copy paste that

7. Go back to the Namespaces view and delete your Namespace.

> 8. In the Compass UI, remove the `test-app` from the **Applications** view. If you go back to the **Applications** view in the Kyma Console UI, you can see that the `test-app` Application is removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. In the Compass UI, remove `test-app` from the **Applications** view. If you go back to the **Applications** view in the Kyma Console UI, you can see that the `test-app` Application is removed.
```

> 4. Go to the **APIs** tab and delete `http-db-service-test` API.

Reviewer 2: use the same name as deployment and service
